Quiz13(10/10):

Question 1(3/3):

Write an arguable, compelling, interpretive claim about a text we read together this week that connects to our course theme of community. 

Your Answer:
In "Beowulf", the funeral of Shield Sheafson was treated with a ceremonial send-off which reflected the identity of their culture, which was built by their heroic leaders. This establishes the idea that the society lives on, and the luxurious offerings and ceremonial send-off symbolize the cultures unity and ensures that their leaders' heroic legacies live on.


Question 2(4/4):

Select a quote from that text relevant as evidence for your claim.
Analyze the quote. How does the quote offer evidence of your claim? Why does it support your argument? Pay careful attention to specific words and phrases from the quote itself as you make your argument. 

Your Answer:
“They decked his body no less bountifully with offerings than those first ones did who cast him away when he was a child and launched him alone out over the waves. And they set a gold standard up high above his head and let him drift to wind and tide, bewailing him and mourning their loss.” 

The phrase "decked his body no less bountifully with offerings" infers the importance that this culture places on honoring their leader with wealth and treasures. The phrase “gold standard” uses imagery to symbolize his greatness, which reinforces the idea that their cultural identity shows a leader as both protector and provider. Furthermore, the fact that they are "bewailing him and mourning their loss" illustrates that the community is connected through their shared grief and respect which unites the community together by commemorating their leader, which means that this would deepen and cement their culture. The events of the ceremony showcases them as one society with one unified mindset of devotion, respect, and the commemoration of their leader. Overall, the ceremonial send-off symbolizes the cultures unity and ensures that their leaders' heroic legacies live on.


Question 3(3/3):
Name 2 other texts we've read this semester that would be interesting in conversation with the claim that you've made here. Describe why they would be interesting. 

Your Answer:
1. "The Lottery" by Shirley Jackson

The themes of "The Lottery" sharply contrasts with 'Beowulf" as the story critiques a communiuty blindly following traditions. This difference in themes between the two stories is very interesting to me. Overall, this comparison highlights the importance of questioning community events before unifiying.
2. The Crucible by Arthur Miller

The Crucible shows how corrupted leadership can destroy a community By comparing these two stories, it shows how leaderhsip can make or break a community. For example, In The Crucible, shared beliefs in the community are used as a way to gain control and cause paranoia within the community. However, in Beowulf, the shared values unified their community.

#feedback:


