Quiz3(9/10):

Share an observation about one of the texts we read and discussed together this week. (4.5/5)

Your Answer:
     An observation I had in the album “Pressure Machine” was that the people in the small town often were left feeling trapped and left to question how life would have turned out if they decided to pursue their dreams.


What is interesting about this observation? Why did it stand out to you? (4.5/5)

Your Answer:
   The interesting thing about my observation is that the people of the town felt like they could not be themselves and felt trapped in their town. There were many different situations that highlight this, like being unhappy in a marriage leading to infidelity, or second-guessing whether or not their partner is happy that they settled down, instead of chasing their dreams. Also the town’s hypocrisy caused people to feel trapped. For example, in the song “Terrible Thing”, half the town showed up to watch bullfighting, which many people would consider cruel and immoral, while at the same time condemning homosexuality. These hypocritical and inconsistent values lead people to feel trapped within a community that supposedly contained “Good people” who “don't deadbolt their doors at night”. One thing that really stood out to me was in the song “Quiet Town” where the man at the beginning talks about how everybody in the town knows about the train, yet somehow “Every two or three years, the train kills somebody”. This highlights how the people feel trapped and see the train as a possible escape from the town, showing the dark idea “if you get hit by [the train]” might be a way out. This highlights that being scared of change can lead people to take extreme measures. In conclusion, many people did not find the same joy as others did in the town. They felt dissatisfied with their lives but were unable to leave the town due to fear. Because of this, they believed the only way out was through extreme measures.


#feedback: Lots of interesting and good thoughts here--i think the early assertion about hypocrisy in response to Q2 needs a bit more work to be persuasive (it seems like you are maybe describing something else adjacent to hypocrisy), but overall, good work here
