Quiz7(10/10):

Question 1(3/3):

Write an arguable, compelling, interpretive claim about one of the texts we 'read' this week. 

Your Answer:
In the poem "Remember how we forgot", Shane Koyczan argues that external pressures from society inhibit people's creativity and individuality, but highlights the importance of regaining passion to produce more genuineness in life and inspire others.



Question 2(3/3):

Select a quote from that text relevant as evidence for your claim.

Your Answer:
"[Society] tries to create formulas for every aspect of our lives. "(Koyczan)

 "One thing I have learned, it is that without passion, you have nothing.” (Koyczan)


Question 3(4/4):

Analyze the quote. How does the quote offer evidence of your claim? Why does it support your argument? Pay careful attention to specific words and phrases from the quote itself as you make your argument. 

Your Answer:
Within the quotes, Koyczan argues that society imposes "formulas for every aspect of our lives" in order to group people together, which leads to a loss of passion and indivualality. The word "formulas" creates a passionless vibe,  because when you think of a formula, you think of something like math class, where you have to follow the steps to get the right answer. So, it feels like there is constraints on what you can do and you have to follow the traditional path in life in order to succeed. This leads to the loss of indivualality and passion because people are often scared to veer off from societal norms. Then, the word "passion",  is shown as something vital. The phrase "without passion, you have nothing" highlights the arguement that passion is cruical to have a sense of indivualality. With passion, you have the motivation to think outside the box and not care what other people think.  Overall, the quotes support my arguement by showing how these societal pressures causes people to become passionless, but also shows the importance of regaining passion, which can inspire others.


#feedback:


