Quiz7(10/10):

Question 1(3/3):

Write an arguable, compelling, interpretive claim about one of the texts we 'read' this week. 

Your Answer:
In the short story "Cat Person", Kristen Roupeman argues that false perceptions of people can arise when digital interactions replace in person interactions which can lead to people being put in uncomfortable and potentially dangerous situations.



Question 2(3/3):

Select a quote from that text relevant as evidence for your claim.

Your Answer:
"she became wildly uncomfortable, and, as they got on the highway, it occurred to her that he could take her someplace and rape and murder her; she hardly knew anything about him, after all."(Roupeman 5)

 

"she wanted to continue spending time with him as because she’d had such high expectations" (Roupeman 6)

Question 3(4/4):

Analyze the quote. How does the quote offer evidence of your claim? Why does it support your argument? Pay careful attention to specific words and phrases from the quote itself as you make your argument. 

Your Answer:
Within the quote, Roupeman argues that modern technology can create "high expectations" for someone despite "hardly [knowing] anything about [them]", which can lead someone to be in a situation where they become "wildly uncomfortable". The word "expectations" suggests she has created an idealized version of the man through their digital interactions. However, these "expectations" are fundamentally incomplete because they are based on limited information, like texting. The differences between reality and expectation highlights how digital interactions can create false perceptions. Then the phrase "wildly uncomfortable" creates a sense of intense uneasiness, which shows her perception of the man has changed. Since she had "high expectations" for him based on their digital interactions, she had a false sense of security because "she hardly knew anything about him" which in some situations, she could be harmed. Overall, these quotes support my argument by showing how false perceptions of people are made when face-to-face interactions are minimal which can potentially lead to dangerous situations.

#feedback:


