Quiz14(10/10):

Question 1(3/3):

Write an arguable, compelling, interpretive claim about a text we read together this semester (NOT the same one you wrote about in quiz 13 or for MWA 2) that connects to our course theme of community. 

Your Answer:
     “Is This Kansas” critiques how communities in college towns lack accountability, which leads these communities to create unsettling double standards and privileges for people in power. This reveals how communities often prioritize the powerful over the needs of everyone else who resides in the community. Ultimately, communities do not operate in the best interest of all, they operate in the best interest of those who control them.


Question 2(4/4):

Select a quote from that text relevant as evidence for your claim.
Analyze the quote. How does the quote offer evidence of your claim? Why does it support your argument? Pay careful attention to specific words and phrases from the quote itself as you make your argument. 

Your Answer:
"I was no longer an adult there, but a child again."(Biss 136)

      The phrase "I was no longer an adult there, but a child again," highlights her vulnerability and powerless position within this community. The word "Child" represents her powerlessness as Biss comes to realize that the students who run rampant around her, drinking and doing illegal activities, are guided by irresponsibility and curiosity, and yet, are treated like adults with more freedom than expected from people in power. The word "again," implies she has regressed within her community, and she's seen as a child again, although she hasn't been for years. Overall, this word choice shows that communities do not operate in the best interest of all, they operate in the best interest of those who control them.

Question 3(3/3):
Name 2 other texts we've read this semester that would be interesting in conversation with the claim that you've made here. Describe why they would be interesting. 

Your Answer:
Cat Person
The themes in "Cat Person" are similar to "Is This Kansas" because they both talk about power imbalances. This is interesting because Is This Kansas critiques on a broader scale while Cat Person critiques relationships.

2. Martin Luther King's Last Christmas Sermon

The themes in "Martin Luther King's Last Christmas Sermon" contrasts with "Is This Kansas" because King promotes unity and shared responsibility within a community , while Biss critiques the lack of shared responsibility. This is an interesting comparison because King offers a solution to Biss’s critiques.

#feedback:


